BYLAWS FOR PSWD YOUNG ADULT CAMP GOVERNANCE 2015-2016

I. Camp Core Staff Positions
	A. Dean
		1. Position Basics 
		Number of Positions: One or Two
		Term: 1 year
		Method: Elected (together)

		2. Dean Job Description 
		Creates and implements the vision of camp.  Plans and executes the camp event itself.
		Primary responsibilities include:
		- Assemble, lead, and support the YA Camp Staff in the planning of camp
		- Liaise with the PSWD Camping Ministries Director (CMD)
		- Liaise with the de Benneville Camp Director
		- Create camp schedule and oversee formation of programming elements
		- Recruit a camp nurse who is at least First-Aid and CPR certified (ideally a paramedic or registered nurse); if none are available from within the camp community, coordinate with the CMD and Camp Director to hire one
		- Actively promote camp to young adults within the district/region
		- Facilitate the smooth running of camp on-site, addressing any issues that arise
		- Take notes on experience in the role to pass along to the next Dean(s)
		- Agree to be available as a resource for future Deans to consult with questions for at least 1 year after term ends, even if no longer attending camp

		3. Term Limits
		Candidates may not serve more than 4 terms as dean, and no more than two terms consecutively

		4. Eligibility
		Candidates must have been on staff at least one camp (including the current one) prior to taking on the dean role. Candidates must be within the camp age range (18-35) for the entire duration of their term as dean. Candidates must be present as campers at the election.

	B. Worship Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Prepares 3 worship services, one for each night of camp, ideally incorporating elements of the camp theme.  Recruits campers to collaborate as desired.  Leads or delegates the lead of each worship.  Prepares and offers blessings before meals, and at other occasions as appropriate.  Plans and facilitates rituals for circling in younger adults and new campers, as well as circling out 35 year olds.  Works to ensure that Unitarian Universalist values are represented and modelled throughout camp.

	C. Workshop Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Recruits campers (before camp) to run one-shot workshops at camp.  Also known as “funshops”, these can include physical activities, crafting projects, organized games, hikes, intellectual discussions, or anything else that campers might find engaging.  Provides logistical support to workshop leaders, and serves as a liaison between them and the camp staff.  Promotes workshops while at camp to help encourage attendance.

	D. Social Justice Stream Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Recruits leaders to plan and facilitate 2-part intensive workshops dedicated to social justice issues.  Provides logistical support to stream leaders, and serves as a liaison between them and the camp staff.  Promotes streams while at camp to help encourage attendance.

	E. Registrar
		1. Job Description
		Oversees the camp registration process.  Facilitates the collection of camper payment.  Oversees the scholarship process, with the assistance of an ad hoc committee assembled and facilitated by the Registrar or the Dean.  Assigns campers to cabins based on their needs and preferences.  Serves as primary point of contact between campers and staff during the lead up to camp.

	F. Covenant Group Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Devises and publishes an outline of activities and discussion points for covenant groups to engage in.  Creates a separate, evolving outline for each of the 4 days, incorporating the direct and indirect themes of camp, with a focus on personal connection and small group worship opportunities.  Recruits campers (before camp) to lead covenant groups at camp.  Divides and assigns all campers into covenant groups, and determines their group names and meeting locations.

	G. Special Events Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Facilitates the planning and setup of all-camp special events, such as the Scholarship Auction, Variety Show, Carnival, and Dance.  As needed, recruits campers to host and otherwise assist with special events.

	H. Chaplain
		1. Job Description
		Serves in a pastoral care role at camp.  Takes a leading role in managing crises, ensuring a healthy and safe atmosphere at camp, and bringing spiritual resources and support to the community.  Assembles and facilitates the Right Relations Team.

		2. Eligibility
		Applicants must have been present for one camp prior to taking on the Chaplain role. Applicants must possess professional training in a counseling role, such as a Minister, Social Worker, or Therapist. Applicants must be within the camp age range (18-35) for the entire duration of their term.

	I. Facilities Coordinator
		1. Job Description
		Serves as a liaison between the camper community and the Camp de Benneville Site Staff on maintenance or facilities issues. Conducts minor minor as needed, such as replacing light bulbs, plunging toilets, cleaning shower drains, or replenishing paper goods in bathrooms.  Reports major issues to camp maintenance supervisor and provides any support needed to resolve them.

	J. Additional Staff
		Additional Staff will be appointed at the discretion of the dean and selected via application process with the consent of any staff mmeber(s) involved.

	K. Misc
		The Dean may, at any time, add or remove specific responsibilities to or from any position, or merge multiple positions into one.
		
	L. Eligibility
		Unless otherwise noted, all positions may be held by one or two people for a term of one year. Positions are appointed by the Dean via application process, may serve no more than 8 terms, may serve no more than two terms consecutively. Applicants must be present for one camp prior to taking on a position. Applicants must be within the camp age range (18-35) for the entire duration of their term.

II. Elections Process
	A. Time/Place
		Elections will take place at Young Adult Camp on Sunday Evening, prior to night time activities.

	B. Election Facilitation
		Elections will be facilitated by a volunteer Moderator who is nominated by the voting body and affirmed by a voice vote.  The Dean will facilitate the meeting until a Moderator is selected.  The Moderator cannot advocate for or against any proposal or candidate, and cannot be a candidate for Dean.  The Moderator appoints two assistants, also affirmed by voice vote, to count the written votes.  The assistants are still able to vote.  As needed, the Dean will facilitate the process of selecting a Moderator.

	C. Declaring Candidacy
		1. Statement
			Candidates will submit a one-page (max) statement of interest specific to the position they are running for that will be posted in the lodge preferably no later than the morning of the election.
		2. Candidate Forum
			Immediately prior to elections there will be a candidate forum by position, wherein each open position will have a candidate panel Q & A with the camp voting body. Panel time limits will be determined by the Moderator based on the number of open positions and candidates.

	D. Voter Eligibility
		To be eligible to vote you must be present at camp as a camper and be within the camp age range (18-35)

	E. Ballot Process
		1. Staff position votes will be collected via paper secret ballot. Ballots will be distributed after the candidate forum and will be returned to a monitored ballot box. Candidates will be elected by simple majority, using an instant run-off system if there are more than two separate candidates for a single position. The election Assistants will independently count the votes and consult with each other prior to instant run-off phase or announcement of the winner.  The vote count totals will be made publicly available.
			a. Instant run-off is when voters rank candidates in order of preference. In the event that one candidate fails to achieve a sufficient majority, the candidate with the fewest number of first-preference rankings is eliminated and these votes redistributed, the process being repeated until one candidate achieves the required majority.
			
		2. No Confidence
			Votes of no confidence are allowed. If no confidence receieves a majority vote, additional dandidates may be nominated, bypassind the requirement for a statement of interest. (II.C.1) and the election is re-run. If no candidate receives a majority, the PSWD Camping Ministries Director shall appoint the position at their discretion.

III. YA Camp Business Meeting
	A. Meeting Facilitation
		The Dean will serve as the Moderator of the Business Meeting.  Optionally, the Dean can recuse themselves and hand over facilitation of the meeting to a volunteer Moderator who is nominated by the voting body and affirmed by a voice vote.  The Moderator cannot advocate for or against any proposal or candidate, and cannot propose policy measures.

	B. Time/Place
		The YA Camp Business meeting will take place at each camp during any unopposed time prior to camp elections. The meeting will be included in the regular schedule and advertised in the pre-packet.

	C. Policy Proposals and Bylaw Proposals
		1. Proposal Eligibility
		Any individual or group of individuals who have attended at least one young adult camp prior to the current one and we will be within the camp age range (18-35) at the camp business meeting as a camper are eligible to submit policy proposals or bylaw changes.
		
		2. Voting Process
		Policy and bylaw proposals are read aloud, and require two-thirds of the votes cast to pass. Eligible voters will display ‘yay’ or ‘nay’ votes via raised hands. The Moderator will count the votes. Changes go into effect as soon as the current camp ends.
